[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: I think
we can do better than that and
I think the way we do better is by
going back to the module pattern.
That we can take any bunch of stuff and
put it inside of a function and
invoke it immediately and it does
the same thing except that in this space,
we're not creating global variables.
This stuff is not leaking out in creation
where it's a danger and a hazard.
So we can make stuff using this pattern.
For example I want to make a singleton.
I want to make one instance of
an object containing two methods,
first method and second method, and
I want those two methods to share
private variables and private functions.
In JavaScript there is no easy
way to get privacy except
when you're doing this
stuff with with module or
function modules because each
function has a function scope.
Which is a really effective container for
keeping stuff that nothing leaks
out of function scope ever.
There's no force in the universe
that can force a function
to leak what is held in its scope.
And we can take advantage of that.
And it's a very nice pattern so
what I'm going to store in singleton,
is not this outer function because I'm
going to invoke that function immediately.
What I'm going to store
will be its return value,
which is this object
containing two methods.
And those two methods will
close over the private state.
share that private state.
If one changes one of
those private variables,
the other, next time he looks at that
variable, he will see the change.
>> Douglas Crockford: Before we figured
out how to do this stuff with functions in
JavaScript, the private variable and
private function would have been global
variables, and there is no privacy there.
>> Douglas Crockford: And one nice thing
about this compared to a classical
language, in a classical language
if you want to make a singleton,
you still have to make a class, which is
a lot of work just to make one thing.
Whereas in JavaScript none
of these are very much work.
And there are lots of
variations on this pattern.
For example I might have, instead of
returning an object I want to have
a global variable which is going to be the
container of everything in my application.
It's going to be this one object
which is the root of everything.
And I want to enhance it, I want to add
a methodical property to our global
object that has these two methods in
it which share this private state.
And we can do that easily.
So we don't have to make a class just to
make one off, and again there are lots and
lots of variations on this pattern,
it's a very rich pattern.
And again this works because we're
invoking the function immediately.
But if we don't invoke
the function immediately,
then we can hold onto that function and
make lots of instances.
So let's do that.
This module pattern is easily transformed
into a powerful constructor pattern.
So here's the recipe.
Step 1, we're gonna make an object
using all of the techniques,
any of the techniques available for
making objects.
We can use an object literal,
we can use new, we can use Object.create.
We can call another of
these power constructors.
Any way we can get an object,
we get an object.
Step 2, we will define some variables and
functions.
These will become the private
members of our object.
Step 3, we will augment the object
with privileged methods.
A privileged method is a publicly
available method of an object
which closes over the private stuff.
And step 4, we return the object.
So it's a pretty simple recipe.
It's way too abstract to
make sense out of it, right?
So we need to go a little deeper.
So let's turn it into a template.
So step 1,
I'm going to make a constructor function.
And I'm spelling constructor now with
a lowercase c instead of an uppercase c,
because this form of constructor
does not care about the new prefix.
If you call this function with a new
prefix it will run a little bit slower,
but it will still do
exactly the right thing.
So, this way we don't have
to worry about people
forgetting the new prefix
cuz nothing can go wrong.
Then I'm gonna recommend passing
in a specification object.
The way you normally write
constructors is you'll just pass in
some number of things separated by commas.
Some years ago, I designed a constructor
that had ten arguments in it,
which was a problem because nobody
could remember what order they went in.
So it was really hard to use and
then it turned out nobody
used the third parameter.
But we couldn't take it out, right,
cuz if we took that argument out,
then all of the code would break.
And so people had to use the third
parameter unnecessarily forever.
That was really awful and brittle.
So, what I would do instead is say pass
in an object using an object literal.
So, by just adding two more characters,
we can now have named parameters.
I can give each of the parameters a name
so, the call is self documenting, so
we can see what's getting passed in.
We can have them in any order, if we leave
things out we can have nice defaults,
if it turns out some parameters become
unnecessary we simply ignore them.
We have lots of power in the way
that we can manipulate objects so
I would take advantage of that.
Also, we could get the specification
object from a JSON payload.
So we might have some store that
we want to use the constructor to
reconstitute the object.
We can do that as well.
Or to cause the creation of
objects across the network
using specifications to get passed
over the wire through JSON.
Then I'm going to call another
constructor to make an object and
I'm gonna pass the same
specification object to him as well.
So it maybe that that other constructor
will make use of some properties in
the specification object that I don't
need but that makes sense to him.
And if there's anything we
both need we're sharing it.
I used to call this parasitic
inheritance where we're gonna call
another constructor and
we're gonna take credit for its work.
I was inspired by a wasp that lays its
eggs in the bodies of live spiders.
So the spider does most of
the work of making instances but
the wasp gets all the credit,
gonna do something like that.
And then I'll take the result
of what the other maker did, and
put it in a variable called that.
I can't put it in something called
this because this is a reserved word.
Then I can create my member variables.
I can create as many member
variables as I want.
And because they're gonna be
held in the function scope,
they're not visible outside of the object,
they're only visible inside the object.
I will create my private methods,
and my private methods
will have access to the specification
object to the member variables and
to the other methods as well.
I do not use this in here,
don't need this,
so the code's going to be
a little bit smaller and cleaner.
And any of these methods
that I need to be public,
I simply assign them to
the outgoing object.
And the last step, I return the object.
And that's it.
And it's a very flexible pattern,
there are lots and
lots of variations on this but this is
the basic core idea, that we're taking
use of closure in order to provide
private state within the object.